“There is a sort of sameness here,” said the ghost irrelevantly, with a
comprehensive wave of the hand, “particularly in the architecture.” And
then he suddenly kicked at a bone which had attracted his attention,
though how it had escaped the attention of Floyd, whose whole life is
spent in trying to keep the place immaculately clean is a mystery. The
young man thought perhaps the little dog had brought it in. But, however
it had come there, it seemed to annoy the ghost greatly. He said
angrily:

“There’s reverence for you! There’s respect and sentiment. When I was a
small shaver I regarded a graveyard as a sacred place, and scarcely
dared to let my little feet fall for fear they might weigh too heavily
on the sainted dead below. 'Sainted dead!' Now that is a good one, too!
Well, perhaps familiarity does breed contempt. If you will excuse me for
mentioning it, my pipe is out,” remarked the ghost rather abruptly. The
young man filled it, and at the same time the thought intruded itself
into his mind that the ghost had said “My pipe.” The ghost took it
gracefully and after a couple of puffs said:

“If you like, we will walk around a little while I smoke this last pipe,
for I shall soon have sights to show you, as well as things to tell, and
must hurry before we begin the carnival.”

“Begin what?” asked the young man a little nervously.

“Well, we have a sort of convention of all the ghosts of this city and
some delegations from other places, some from quite a distance, I
believe. We are to have a dance after some speech-making and a banquet.
There will also be some general amusements such as are permitted in good
society. After that we do our penance—that is some regard it in that
light, but I do not for it makes the stone lie heavy over my head.”

As the Sociable Ghost said that he waved his hand indefinitely and stood
up on his skeleton feet and prepared to walk.

“As we go along I will tell you many things that never came to your
knowledge, and they may be of service to you in after life. If I had
known all that I am going to show you and tell you tonight before I
died, I might have done some things and not done others, and so
shortened my probation a good while. I then would never have been stuck
under this lying stone.”

In the meantime the number of ghosts grew larger so rapidly that it
seemed there would soon be room for no more. The ghost said:

“The most of the ghosts that you see here tonight above ground are
invited guests, and they come because the march of civilization as you
call it, has left them no place where they might hold a reunion of their
own, for it is only in settled cemeteries that there can be such a
function as you shall see here tonight—that is if you wish to remain.”

The newspaper man hastily signified that he would indeed like to be
present at such a function. Up to the present time in his career as a
reporter he had never flinched from anything in the way of sight-seeing,
and after having witnessed so much that was strange and hazardous he was
not going to flinch now. The ghost continued:

“The whole place is honeycombed with vaults which we can at will
transform into a place befitting the occasion. This is done by means of
certain powers given us, but before I go on I wish you to take
particular notice of my headstone. Why, I will tell you later. I know
all the ghosts belonging to this place and many more, and whatever I may
say about them will be truthful history and no one will say that I have
ever belied him.”

The young man hastened to remark that he was sure of that, adding that
he had always heard of the chivalric manner in which the men of the past
generations spoke of others, and especially he admired the reverence
which they showed towards all women, which was very beautiful.

A strange, crackling laugh was the answer to this. It sent the cold
chills galloping up and down the reporter's spine. It also checked any
further expression of his admiration of bygone manners.

“Young man, you are positively refreshing! We did regard all women
except our own and the ugly ones with the greatest consideration. That
has been the rule since the world began, and will be unto the end. But
to resume. Look now at my headstone. I was a rich man in my day and time
and had every reason to expect a fine monument with a weeping willow on
it or at least a cherub, and a nice big slab. Just see what I got! It
reminds me of one Christmas morning when after I had been extra good for
three months hoping to get a bright red sled, I found a copy of Sanford
and Merton in my stocking. I wonder I didn’t turn out to be a pirate!
Maybe I didn’t go out behind the barn and tear the thing up, and lie
like a little imp when they found out the book was gone. Since then I
made it a point to lick every man by the name of Sanford or Merton that
I ever met. Fool names, both of them.”

“I don’t blame you a bit,” said the young man with spirit, as the
remembrance of much the same experience flitted across his mind. The
Sociable Ghost continued:

“Pardon me for interrupting—I am a little out of practice in telling a
story. To take up the thread of my narrative. Here you see a measly
little slab of red sandstone, and no sign of the little cherub that sits
up aloft watching out for the safety of poor Jack. I was a captain and
commanded my own ship. She was as fine a vessel as ever rode out a gale.
I loved every timber in her hull and every rope on the rigging and every
spar and mast and sail as women love their young ones.”

“I can quite understand that,” assented the young man.

“Well, my ship made me a rich man. My relict, to offset the strict
economy that she showed in the matter of stone, had a lot of stuff about
my noble qualities and my pious—and all that. So much indeed, that not
half shows above ground. All of this makes me just so much work and
dirty work. Digging down in it without implements! You may see where it
says that I sailed to Liverpool, and so I did, once or twice, but the
most of my voyages were to the West Indies and to Africa. I brought
cargoes of rum and molasses for the merchants who were in the business
here then, and who were not ashamed of working in their own warehouses,
and whose descendants today put on many grand airs. They talk about
their ancestors, as though they had been of some superior clay. I hate
airs, and always did. Nine out of ten of these old merchants dealt in
either slaves or rum. The slaves came from the coast of Africa. I
brought them for the account of these people whose descendants put on
the airs. I suppose from the legend on my headstone if I had left any
descendants they would have put on quite as many airs. I am glad I did
not. As I said, I hate airs.”

“I think any right-feeling person does,” hazarded the reporter, who was a
little in doubt as to the outcome of this conversation.

“I held my wife so close in money matters,” continued the ghost
reminiscently, “being thrifty, and looking forward to the time when I
should be able to stay on shore, that I never let her know how much I
had. Later, when she got control of all my earnings she had so profited
by my example and teachings that—well, you see what a headstone she gave
me. I had done many things for that money—things that I now wish that I
had not done. I taught her economy and by George! when she had a chance
to pay me in my own coin, she did it and she did it well. Just look at
that miserable chunk of old sandstone all covered with a lot of da—I
mean a lot of untruthful stuff that will keep me at it I don’t know how
many years yet. If she had known she could not have revenged herself on
me worse. She gave all my clothes and a puncheon of good rum to the fool
sculptor, and I am just waiting for him to come down here. If he ever
does, I won’t do a thing to him but make him think he mistook his
vocation and ought to have been a boiler maker and stayed safely in one
of his iron-clad boilers.”

As the angry ghost delivered himself of this speech, he somehow took on
such a fierce expression, shown more in attitude than feature—since he
had no features—that the young man was sincerely glad that he had not
been guilty of carving the objectionable stuff on the fast crumbling
stone. As they walked along the ghost continued:

“Now, take notice that this stone has all the epitaph rubbed out. The
name only remains, and that proves that he was a pretty good sort. Here
is another where the epitaph is all gone except the date. Now that is a
good start, isn’t it?”

The young man murmured something about it seeming so, though he was
entirely in the dark about it. Still he knew enough to keep still and
let the ghost tell his story in his own way and in his own time. Many a
time he had managed to secure a fine story for his paper from someone
who had declared that he had nothing to say by judiciously keeping
silence, curbing his curiosity and inquisitiveness, and speaking only
when absolutely necessary. He began to feel that he was going to get
something tonight not often given to mortals, and he mentally arranged
the headlines of the story, for of course he would sell it. Every other
experience save one had been made to yield him so many dollars, and it
was natural that this strange meeting should appeal to him only as a
scoop beyond the power of any mortal to equal. So he discreetly awaited
the pleasure of his ghostly companion.

He wondered if the pebbles hurt the ghost’s feet. He felt a little
delicate about mentioning it, particularly as he could have proposed no
remedy even if the pebbles did hurt. Soon the ghost stopped by a rather
small headstone, and in a reminiscent manner said, between the delicious
whiffs of smoke:

“I well remember when the fashion for these cherubs went out and fancy
monuments with weeping willows on them came in. I had not been dead then
very long, and I was wondering which I would get and thinking what a
luminous old gump I was not to have made some provision for just such a
contingency. By dying suddenly my widow had things her own way, and a
pretty mess she has made of it as you see. Well; cherubs went out and
weeping women in weeds standing over funeral urns took their places. I
had thought that the new ones looked more dignified and were superior,
but since then I have come to see these cherubs as they are. Where there
are cherubs there is not much epitaph. Have you ever seen these cherubs?
No? Well come then, and take a good look at them for they are worth the
trouble. Some of them will fill you with envy to think you cannot have
one right away to watch over your slumber—I don’t think,”

This last was said with an indescribably waggish leer, and the reporter
began to think he was on the right road to a new experience and that
this man who had been so long dead still could see the humorous side of
it all, and that would certainly be from a new viewpoint.

They walked along until they came to one part of the cemetery where
there seemed to have been an epidemic of headstones with cherubs on
them. The ghost stopped before one of them and said:

“Just take a look at this cherub and see the mouth—or rather where the
mouth once was—and notice how it is all worn away, that is if the
sculptor did not die before he had finished his work. Here is another
where the mouth is half gone, and the expression is half a mocking smile
on one side and nothing at all on the other. Some have faces round and
others have long ones; some smile and others have the lips drawn down
almost to the chin in a lugubrious line each side of the face. Just
notice this one! The shape of the face is like that of a Bartlett pear
with the big end down, and around the head is what the artist fondly
believed to be a halo of glory; but it looks more like a bunch of oakum
tied to a ruffled nightcap. The oakum is supposed to represent the
living flame of sacred fire. And just catch onto the wings! And note the
general expression! These things were much admired in those days, and
were considered the highest form of expression of poetic thought. I
think I even complained just now that none had been put on my headstone,
but after all I’m blamed—no blessed glad of it for they are silly and
they do grate on my sense of the fitness of things, and they might after
all interfere with my passport. Oh, yes; I will tell you about that
later. Just now I want to show you around a little, for probably you
will never again have an opportunity like this.”

Here the reporter caused a slight interruption in the conversation by
handing the ghost the flask with a quiet grace which completely
captivated his heart, that is, the ghost of a heart. The ghost took a
few swallows and with a Chesterfieldian bow returned it to the young man
and then continued his running commentaries on the headstones.

“Now we come to a new departure in cherubs. You see this one is not very
well supplied with flesh, and is cut to represent a skeleton’s head. I
have noticed in many churchyards that it is considered quite the thing
to preach sermons to the living on the mutability of human affairs, and
therefore these things are put on the stones. I think the most of them
are put there out of spite because the person down below had to die. I
know quite a number of ghosts who have told me that they left
instructions for their own epitaphs. So you see the ghosts get some
comfort out of the gruesome warnings, but I doubt that anyone living was
ever scared into repentance by them. I know one old fellow who gets so
mad every time he hears people up above read his epitaph and laugh at
the time-honored words of ‘As I am now, so you must be; prepare for
death and follow me—’”

Here the reporter could not restrain his tongue and he asked if it were
possible for the dead lying in their graves to really hear, and know
what was passing. The ghost replied:

“Oh, yes; we know all that goes on above ground, that is if it interests
us enough to make us care to take the trouble to learn. We each find out
what we most care about, much as you who are not dead do, and we talk it
over at our hour of release.”

“And that I suppose is between the hours of twelve and one?”

“My young friend, you are behind the age. There was a time when people
believed that ghosts could walk only at the hour you mention, but there
is one night when we can walk from sunset to one o’clock, which you see
brings us into another day. We can walk, run, dance or do anything we
like, within certain limitations. You have happened here on the only
night in the year when we can do this. We have been going the rounds
below ever since the sun went down and now we are coming up as you see.
We leave our coffins and go about—and in short—you shall see it all
tonight.”

Here the ghost gave a sniff of disgust and anger, and pointing at a
headstone, said:

“Now, just look at that! They have gone and ‘restored’ that headstone
and had all that fulsome epitaph recut in it. And, they thought they were
doing a meritorious action, and that will give that poor fellow no end
of trouble to get it out again. And, he cannot get his passport until he
does. And here is another similar case. See this stone? Well, only today
the descendants of this man—take notice that I say who has slept, for he
is wide awake enough now and hopping mad—came and gave orders that the
inscription be restored. Poor fellow! He has been at that trying to
scrub it out ever since 1796. It seems that some of the families who have
so little to be proud of in this generation try to make it up by piling
more misery on their dead ancestors, just to show that they had
ancestors with such very flattering records. Bah!”

“He must be rather old?” hazarded the reporter with a desire to learn
something besides the opinion of the ghost regarding the inscriptions,
whereupon the ghost turned sharply around and said with some little show
of asperity:

“He was only about forty and he is the same now. Ghosts cannot grow
older, for there is nothing for them to grow with. Here is the grave of
Alexander Hamilton. Later I shall show you what he looks like now.”

Saying this the ghost seemed to be absorbed in reflection for a few
moments. Suddenly he spoke:

“What a pity that you have no more whiskey. There are several persons
here tonight who would so enjoy a good snifter. The worst feature about
our banquets is that all our food and drink are as unsubstantial as we
are.”

“I could go across the way and get some, if you will wait for me,” said
the young man eagerly, for it occurred to him that he would like to see
the effect of a generous allowance of real whiskey on the ghosts, and
there were apparently legions of them now strolling around among the
graves and through the church.

“Never mind for this time,” said the ghost. “I have had all that is good
for me, and I always knew when I had enough. Besides, I would like to
take a rise out of some of these fellows tonight. You see, it is a great
thing for one so long dead to have any friends left alive anyhow and
above all one who knows enough to bring any creature comforts like the
pipe and whiskey.”

The young man bowed, and said no more on that subject, but he began to
think that this ghost was entirely too prolix.

“Notice, my young friend,” said the ghost, confidentially, “as they
strolled along toward the south side of the churchyard; “all these
stones are set facing the sunrising. Now, some might think this was done
on account of the formation of the ground, but it is not so, for it
would have been just as easy to have faced them all south, north, east
or west. This is simply the last lingering remains of the old heathen
custom and belief that the rising sun represents the resurrection of the
dead. The ancients also believed in pouring out drink offerings and
libations, and, my friend, they were nearer right than we are with all
our boasted civilization. Nothing can be of benefit to the dead, unless
it is spirits which are ethereal in themselves, and smoke which is
evanescent, and almost intangible. I assure you there are times when we
could appreciate a glass of good rum. That being a spirit in itself, we
assimilate it easily and enjoy it thoroughly. But our civilization does
not believe in offering libations to the dead, more's the pity. I knew
an old heathen once who had been buried hundreds of years, and he used
to make us all as mad as hops when he told us how his descendants, as is
the custom there, came regularly to his grave and poured out good
spirits. By George! It almost made me wish that I had been one myself.”

After that sentiment forcibly expressed, the couple walked along in
silence for a short distance, and the ghost stubbed his toe against the
slab covering the Barclay vault. This bore the date of 1762 in
measurably clear letters. The good-natured ghost seemed suddenly changed
in regard to the mildness of his disposition, as he hopped around on one
bony foot and said things, some of them sounding like a word beginning
with a big D and ending with a little n. The newspaper man bowed his
head over the tomb of brave Lawrence, and had a severe coughing fit to
cover up his unholy amusement, and whether it was that the ghost was too
much occupied in rubbing his toe, or whether he really did not see it,
this danger passed, and the ghost turned and limped toward the front of
the church and across the porch. As he did so, he said:

      “Drat that toe! I'm sure I broke it off”

“Drat that toe! I nearly put it out of joint! I despise airs anyhow, and
folks that think themselves too good to have just plain graves, and go
and dig vaults and leave the slabs lying right in one’s path. If I had
them aboard my ship I'd fix them. I'd stow them so close that when they
got out they would think that a six-foot grave was an extended plain or
a rolling prairie. I am afraid I shall have to tie that toe on, for I am
sure it must be loose.”

“Can I be of any assistance?” asked the reporter.

“Nah, you can’t. Excuse me if I am short, but the damn thing hurts.”

“I had an impression that after one is dead there could be no more
bodily pain—that all suffering of the body is over,” hazarded the
newspaper man.

“Well, get rid of that impression in short order,” said the ghost as he
sat down on the edge of the porch and struggled to tear off a piece of
his shroud to tie up his toe. “We can suffer as long as there is
anything material of us left to suffer, and also mentally as long as
things go wrong that we left behind us when we died. Zounds! How that
toe hurts!”

The young man expressed his sympathy so warmly that that and perhaps
somewhat less of pain calmed the ghost so that he took up his
interrupted conversation.

“If you use your eyes, young man, you may see here the present homes of
many persons who have made the history of New York; yes, even of
America. Many of the names are known in every household in the land, and
streets have been named for most of them. Among them you will find the
names of the founders of the old families, though to be sure, when I
come to think of it, many of them have long since received their
passports. You therefore will not see them tonight. But you may see some
of the Van Dams, Kissams, Ludlows, Moores, Vestrys, Goelets, Desbrosses,
Duanes, Worths, Lispenards, Jays, Hulls, Jones, Dominicks, Bleeckers, de
Peysters, Murrays, Chambers, Watts, Kings, Munroes, Leroys and a whole
lot more. I can’t remember them all just now. But, a man has got to be
something before he gets a street named after him. Some of the old
members of these families were not so rich as their descendants are
today. There were no millionaires in my time in New York.”


CHAPTER II.
THE REPORTER MEETS THE LEADER OF THE FOUR HUNDRED

The Sociable Ghost and the newspaper man continued their walk though the
ghost still limped painfully. The reporter tried to bring himself to
offer his arm for the ghost to lean upon, but somehow he could not seem
to care to get too close to the living skeleton as he mentally
considered him. Still he would not willingly have dispensed with his
company. Finally the ghost took up the conversation where he had left it
off.

“I was not born then, let alone being dead, but I have often conversed
with the founders of this mother of churches in this country, and also
the founders of those first families at our reunions. You just ought to
hear them go on about the extravagance of their descendants. They say
that when they were taking up subscriptions for building the new
steeple, Joseph Aspinwall gave one pound six, and Oliver Schuyler put
down one pound; Mrs. Coddington gave two pounds, while Gilbert
Livingstone gave five shillings and six pence. Philip Schuyler donated
six shillings, Mrs. Hamilton gave two pounds fifteen shillings, and Rip
Van Dam, one pound six shillings, and so on no one giving much, if any
more than two pounds. This was while John Cruger was vestryman with
Isaac Decker and Josephus Bayard as co-laborers. I notice that the women
were more generous then as now to church matters and needs, and it has
always been a question with me why this is so. Now, is it because as a
general rule the women did not have to work for the money as the
husbands did, and so they did not appreciate its value, or is it because
the women are by nature more generous and more religious than men? I
heard somewhere once that it was said that it is the women who sustain
the churches. Well, I don’t care, Wow! That toe twinges!”

All this did not interest the young reporter as much as the ghost seemed
to think it should, but politeness forbade him to make any sign. His
appetite was whetted for what was to come and he did not wish to destroy
his chances. He had a vague idea that he had read something like this in
the archives of this old and honored church, while preparing a
description of the three hundredth anniversary, but as he saw that the
ghost liked to enlighten his ignorance he wisely kept silence. At this
moment the ghost said:

“Come on, it will soon be time now. But before we go take one look at
the headstone erected to the memory of William Bradford. He was the
first Government printer and spent fifty years in the service, and left
this world worn out with old age and labor. He printed the first Bible
in this country, and his old press is kept as a memorial.

“He was a decent, simple, hardworking chap, and used all his strength in
his work. And, he didn't get rich either. Well; maybe you have seen
instances of the truly good getting the fool good to sign away their
lives for the benefit of the truly good. I put this matter in a mild
form, for I am apt to get hot under the collar when I think of how many
of the fool-good fellows are bound down to a life of underpaid toil to
give others the benefit of it all.”

Here the ghost paused impressively, and the reporter bowed seriously as
though fully agreeing with him. In fact he did fully agree with the
ghost completely, for he knew something of the matter himself in a small
way. The ghost resumed:

“When I say the truly good, I mean those who are so very good that the
fool-good are blinded by their reputation and so toil for them for next
to nothing. I tell you, publishers have no pudding down here, and the
religious ones seem to be singled out for special punishment. One man is
here tonight who used to run a religious paper. All he paid his writers
was one dollar a column, and however hard they tried they couldn’t earn
over six or seven dollars a week. He made contracts with the poor
fellows to write for him alone, so they could not help themselves when
he cut down the number of columns. One of these unfortunate men wrote a
book while this contract was in force and it made quite a success and
blow me! if the religious chap did not go and claim the book, too. How
it would have turned out I do not know for the publisher died. I'll show
him to you when we go down, that is if you would care to see him.”

“You bet I would!” said the reporter with sudden warmth. Whereupon the
ghost said in a manner to calm his just anger:

“I don't think they are all so bad. But one thing I have noticed and
that is that all the publishers have money, and all the things that
money brings, while the great majority of the writers are poor, some of
them miserably so. All the religious publishers and editors are down
here and rather flock together. They seem to enjoy talking over the
tricks of trade. I used to think that I was something of a pirate, too,
in my way, and therefore their conversations interested me more
probably, than they might otherwise have done. If you were to hear them
talk together you would think much less of them than you do now.”

“I couldn’t!” answered the young man, with emphasis and conviction.

“I will show you another thing tonight that ought to please you if you
take any special interest in publishers, and that is what is done with
those publishers who make the writers wait for their money until their
stories are published. It would be a balm for the hearts of the authors,
and I wish you would let the writers know about it. It may be a poor
satisfaction for those who die before their stories are published. It
has always been a satisfaction to me to whale the fellow that tries to
cheat me out of my own, and if I can’t whale him to see someone else do
it and do it up brown.”

“They tell us that we must speak no evil of the dead,” said the young
man tritely.

“These dead don't wait for anyone to tell what they have done, They
think it is all right. What they have to suffer in seeing the papers, or
the books they used to work on and about done so much better than they
could do while alive! The policies of the whole thing are changed in
many cases and that is very bitter. Well, with one last word on this
subject I will let them alone. It seems to me that when a man writes a
book or a story and offers it for sale, he has the same right to offer
it as an artist his picture, or a cabinet-maker to offer his wares, and
I can't see why the author should have to wait for his pay any more than
the others. If it suits the publisher enough to cause him to buy it the
buyer should pay for it. I have heard men tell here how they had had
stories accepted for publication and kept there year after year, and
then they died before they were published. And, as soon as they did die
the publishers used them at once and paid nothing even to the widows.
Now, of course, I have no means of knowing much about these matters, but
it seems to me to be an outrage if it is true. I used to write poetry on
shipboard, at night, and I am sure that I should not have liked this sort
of treatment, if it is true.”

“Some of them are several times meaner than any you have mentioned. But,
show them to me if you please,” said the reporter, who had a bone to
pick with two or three dead publishers.

“I will. I am sorry for poor Bradford, for they have gone and restored
his whole epitaph. He was good to me when I first came down and kindly
taught me the rules. It is a bit rough until you have learned the ropes
after you are dead.”

“Will you excuse me if I ask you a question? I have always been led to
think that those who are dead dislike to hear the word dead. They are
supposed to prefer to hear, ‘passed into spirit life’ and ‘gone to
Summerland’ instead. All the mediums use that word, in palliation and
instead of the harsher one. Dead, gives one a shock to hear,” asked the
young man in a laudable desire to learn all he could.

“Poppycock and moonshine!” was the unexpected response. “There is no
such thing as a medium. No, sir; they get your money and—do you suppose
that one of them could get you the invitation to come down here tonight?
You are soon to enter the very doors of ghostdom, but not through the
efforts of any medium. No, sir; they trade upon your sense of loss and
sorrow when anyone of yours dies, and they foster and encourage your
desire to penetrate the mystery of the future life. They get your money
by fraud, working upon your best sentiments. They ought to be
keelhauled, and should be if I had my way. I'd string them to the
yardarm and whack them with a rope’s end. If the tie that bound you to
anyone you loved is broken by death there is no third party that can
come and for a certain sum in cash become the medium of communication
between you, and I say, lick the man that tells you different. You are
getting this straight from a real ghost. In my warmth I had almost
forgotten that you asked if we who are dead dislike to hear anyone say
the word Dead. Quite the contrary, for we are dead and it would be very
silly to try to disguise the fact, and we do not try to down here. Fact
is truth and truth governs down here. Dead we are and dead we stay, and
after all I am not sure that we are not quite as well, and sometimes
better off, than when alive. If we miss some things we escape others.
Well, come on; but before we go let me say that the Trinity ghosts are
the hosts tonight and they feel themselves the most aristocratic ghosts
in the land, so I wished to caution you so that you would avoid hurting
anyone’s feelings by seeming to doubt it.”

“I shall be very careful, sir, and hope you will be near enough to
forewarn me of any possible mistake. I assure you that I appreciate this
distinguished honor more than I can say. But, I should like to ask if
any of the Vanderbilts will be here tonight?”